{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Consolas;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs32 Unilox\par
\b0\fs22\par
Unilox is a high-performance pseudorandom number generator (PRNG) library based on Philox32. It is optimized for games, simulations, and embedded applications, providing zero-copy Span APIs with automatic buffer management.\par
\par
It consists of a Rust-native backend wrapped for C# with cross-platform support (x64/aarch64).\par
\par
\b Features\b0\par
\par
- Philox32 Algorithm: High-quality, counter-based PRNG.\par
- High Performance: Zero-copy Span APIs for maximum efficiency.\par
- Automatic Buffer Management: Defaults to 4KB buffer, configurable.\par
- Cross-Platform: Supports x64 and aarch64 architectures.\par
- Warm-up Support: Options for statistical stability.\par
\par
\b Installation\b0\par
\par
Download the latest release binaries from the GitHub Releases page.\par
\par
\b Usage\b0\par
\par
\b 1. Initialization\b0\par
Initialize the library before use. You can configure the buffer size and seeds.\par
\par
\f1 Unilox.Init(); // Default 4KB buffer\par
\par
// Custom configuration\par
Unilox.Init(bufferSize: 16384, seed1: 123456789u, seed2: 987654321u, warm: 100000);\par
\f0\par
\b 2. Random Number Generation\b0\par
\par
\f1 // Single values\par
int dice = Unilox.Randint(1, 6);\par
float uni = Unilox.Randfloat(0f, 1f);\par
\par
// Batch generation (zero-copy)\par
ReadOnlySpan<int> batch = Unilox.Randints(1000, -100, 100);\par
ReadOnlySpan<float> gauss = Unilox.Randfloats(5000, 0f, 10f);\par
\f0\par
\b 3. Cleanup\b0\par
Always free native resources when they are no longer needed.\par
\par
\f1 Unilox.Free(); // Always call to free native resources\par
\f0\par
\b Performance\b0\par
\par
- AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D: 15ns/call, 1.2GB/s buffer fill\par
- RPi Zero 2W:    85ns/call, 45MB/s buffer fill\par
\par
\b Output Ranges\b0\par
\par
- Randint(min, max) -> [min, max)\par
- Randfloat(min, max) -> [min, max)\par
\par
\b Troubleshooting\b0\par
\par
- AccessViolation: Call Init() first, Free() after use\par
- OutOfMemory: Reduce bufferSize (64KB max recommended)\par
- Initial bias: Use warm parameter (100k-1M iterations)\par
\par
\b License\b0\par
\par
MIT License (c) 2026 cet\par
}
